Failure in vibe coding always circles
back to one of two problems.
Underspecified plans or bad development
practices in general. And you know
there's this joke my dad told me when I
was younger which I will censor a bit
here but it illustrates the problem.
There's two bulls standing on top of a
hill overlooking a field of cows. One of
these bowls is older and wise, and the
other one is much younger and full of
spunk. And the younger one says, "We
should run down there and kiss
one of them." And the older bull pauses
for a moment and says, "No, we should
walk down there and kiss all of them."
>> Those are dog words.
>> Are children present? And I think the
moral of that story was meant to be that
patience and long-term planning is more
valuable than speed. So instead of just
jumping into your next project or
feature, pause for a moment and think
about the fact that what makes great
engineers great is that they are very
good at planning. And the skill that I'm
about to show you a demo of helps us do
exactly that. So, the tool itself is
called Context 7, which I've covered
before on this channel, but what we're
specifically looking at is their
relatively new skill wizard. So, Context
7 is basically a tool that keeps
up-to-date documentation for any tool
realistically that you could want to use
so that language models and AI coding
tools have the most up-to-date version
of whatever you were building with. So
if we were going to build something for
example with a drizzle OM we don't have
to worry about codeex or claw code or
whatever using some like outofdate
improper version of this library in
order to build what it's trying to
build. So for example in this demo we're
going to move through we're going to
build like an authentication system
using clerk. If you don't know what
Clerk is, it's basically like a hosted
authentication solution. And inside of
Context 7, we can see that they last
updated this documentation six days ago.
And if we were to scroll down, we can
see all of the patterns and best
practices and ways that Clerk themselves
think we should use their tool. So, the
value of Context 7 here is pretty clear
and obvious, but that's not really what
this video is about. Because what
Context 7 actually created was a system
so that we can take all of this
documentation and actually turn it into
a bulletproof skill. And the translation
of that is that any technology that they
have that you could possibly want to
use, you can now use it like the people
that made it wanted you to use it. Now,
before we show off how this actually
works, let's talk for a second about why
creating skills for this type of stuff
is actually problematic. To create
effective skills, you have to actually
be somewhat knowledgeable of the thing
that you're trying to build a skill for.
And so, you can try to argue about
metaprompting or researching your way to
knowing that stuff, but at the end of
the day, you don't know what you don't
know. So you can assume that it created
you something comprehensive, but you
realistically have no clue if it's
actually comprehensive or complete or
not. And so this manifests really in
three specific ways. Number one, if you
wanted to build a skill for something
like Clerk, which we're going to do in
this video, you have to have a deep
knowledge of the library itself. And
really what that means is you need up
to-date current best practices for how
all of this stuff actually connects and
gets used in an app. Number two, you
need to understand what are the dos and
don'ts that you need to be able to
communicate to your coding tool like
claw code. And number three, these
things evolve over time. So you need to
stay up todate with the actual library.
And so what happens is that most people
don't actually use skills for the
libraries that they're using. And then
you end up with all of these conflicting
patterns inside of your project and
things break. So now that we know why
Context 7 is really valuable and some of
the pains of creating these skills
ourselves, we can actually jump in and
make one of these things. So in order to
run this thing, all you need is to copy
this command that they have in this doc,
which I'll link below the video. And
then we can pop into a project and just
paste in that command. And so down here,
we're going to describe the expertise
that we wanted to have. So in this case,
we could say clerk authentication. And
now what this is going to do is it looks
through all of the sources that it has
again from inside of its database of
things. So if I was to come through here
for example and type in clerk, it's
pulling from this library of sources. So
if we pop back in here, we could say,
hey, I want to use the first source,
which in this case is the official clerk
documentation. And now what it's going
to do is it's going to ask us follow-up
questions. So it wants to understand
what exactly are we trying to do with
clerk in this case. So I'll say that I'm
using Nex.js which I am in this starter
app that I've spun up. What stage of
development are we in? In this case
we're setting it up for the first time.
And then what aspect of the
authentication do we want the skill
focused on? Because we don't want it to
be a skill that talks about every single
thing it could possibly refer to inside
of the docs. If that were the case, we
would just plug the docs in. And so in
this case, we're going to set up a
signup sign-in flow. And so I'll say
sign up and signin flows. And so what
this is going to do is it goes out, it
reads all of the [snorts] sources and
the actual documentation inside of that
library, and then it's going to use it
to build us a skill that tells us how to
do exactly what we said we wanted to do
in part number three. So now after it's
gone through that, you can just install
the skill directly. You can have it make
changes. I'm going to just install the
skill and it's going to install it into
our project. So, if we were to pop in
here now and look inside of our skills
folder, we can see we have this clerk
nex.js authentication skill. And now
inside of it, we've documented all of
the critical rules that we need to
follow in order to do this thing
properly. And the thing that I really
like about how this is structured is
that it's telling us both the wrong way
to do things and the right way to do
things. And so in this case with clerk,
it's talking about where this provider
needs to go that wraps our entire
application and tells it that it needs
to use, you know, this authentication
system. It's going to break down how the
roots actually need to be structured
properly, how the middleware needs to be
integrated into our app in case we have
like authenticated roots that certain
users can or can't access. It documents
all the key patterns on how this thing
should actually be used, what our
environment variables need to look like,
where they should go, how this gets
integrated into what we have built, how
the authentication pages should work,
the entire thing that we need to get
this really working. And then the thing
I really like, what are the common
mistakes that we can force the language
model to avoid. So just to demo this
thing, I have a really basic homepage, a
signup page, and a dashboard. none of
which is protected or has any
configuration on it. Obviously, this
dashboard is something we would only
want a user to see once they were signed
up and logged in. So, if we were to pop
down into our project now and just open
up our claude code instance. So, in this
case, I'm going to run the skill that we
just created and I'm going to say set up
our sign up and sign in process so that
users have to sign in basically in order
to reach that dashboard. So now after a
few seconds, it's created its to-do
list. It needs to install clerk,
obviously. It's going to set up our
local environment variables. It's going
to move through the entire thing. And
then from there, we should be good to
actually test that signup. Okay, so now
that this thing is done, if we were to
go and try to just access that dashboard
that we accessed before, we can see
we're getting redirected now to a clerk
uh sign-in page. And so if I was to
click now sign up, so now I have moved
through and I actually signed up. It's
pulling in my uh profile picture from my
Gmail account and it has a little bit of
details about my account also inside of
the dashboard. So again, a basic
example, but this is really awesome
because we can now implement a
bulletproof best practiceoriented
version of this tool based on what Clerk
thought we should actually do in order
to use their tools properly. Now, here's
the really cool part of this though. If
we were to run this command again and
say that we're interested in clerk
authentication, we select the library.
Now, we can move through and build
skills for other things. So, in the
first version of this, we did just the
basic sign up and signin flow, which we
can see here. But if I wanted to add
more advanced user management and
profiles or maybe I wanted to support
different social providers and single
sign on capabilities, I could do that
pretty easily. So if we were to just go
down and say user management and
profiles, it's now going to run that
entire process through again and give us
a new skill that helps us in this case
with the next stage of the process which
is user management and profiles. And so
now just like earlier we have detailed
documentation on how to actually use in
this case like the user data properly
inside of our app. So if we were using
server components, this is how we could
interact with that user and their data.
And then if we were using like client
components, this is how we could again
interact with all of that information
and data and update it or do whatever it
is that we need to do. And so from here
we could easily extend it. Let's say we
wanted to hook in a superbase instance
and we wanted to set up billing through
Stripe and make sure all of those things
are connected properly like the
authentication, the user's access level,
and then that's tied properly to all of
the Stripe billing information. We could
connect all of these things together
very easily by just using those skills.
So this slow down to speed up paradigm
is one of the best things that you can
do to get better at vibe coding and
avoid the whole AI slop way of doing
things. But that is it for this video. I
will see you in the next